---
title: Empowering Future Leaders - Professional Development Initiatives by Q-ACS
author: Malek Hassan
---

<!-- excerpt start -->
<!-- excerpt end -->

Q-ACS is dedicated to nurturing the academic and professional growth of the department. This year, the chapter launched a series of three enriching workshops, along with the introduction of a Professional Development Travel Award, aimed at providing students and postdoctoral scholars with essential skills and opportunities.

1\. Data Analysis Overview by Dr. Randy Ellis

Kicking off its professional development series, Q-ACS welcomed Dr. Randy Ellis from Queen's University's School of Computing and Department of Surgery to lead an enriching "Data Analysis Overview" workshop. This session was tailored to the unique needs of chemistry students and professionals, focusing on data analysis techniques directly applicable to their field.

2\. Presentation Skills by ACS Fellow Dr. Mark Jones

Communication is paramount in any profession. Dr. Mark Jones, an ACS Fellow and renowned expert, conducted the "Presentation Skills" workshop, teaching the art of delivering compelling presentations and captivating audiences. These skills not only enhance professional growth but also enable members to effectively share their research.

3\. Career Kick-Starter: Preparing for a Successful Career by ACS Fellow Dr. Ajay Mallia (in collaboration with Science-to-Business Network - Kingston Chapter)

The "Career Kick-Starter" workshop, led by ACS Fellow, Dr. Ajay Mallia, addressed the challenges of transitioning from graduate school to a successful career. Attendees gained insights into resume building, job searching strategies, and interview preparation, boosting their confidence to navigate the professional world.

In addition to these workshops, Q-ACS introduced its inaugural Professional Development Travel Award. This initiative reflects the chapter's commitment to supporting members' growth and career aspirations. Three chemistry students were granted the opportunity to attend the "Women Creating a More Sustainable World Conference" in Ottawa. This experience not only exposed the attendees to cutting-edge research and networking but also aligned with the chapter's values of sustainability and inclusivity.

In conclusion, Q-ACS is helping to foster the next generation of chemistry leaders. Through these workshops and the Professional Development Travel Award, the chapter empowers its members with essential skills, knowledge, and valuable opportunities. As the Chapter continues to invest in its members' growth, Q-ACS hopes to serve as a strong support system in the Queen's chemical community.


{% capture col1 %}

{% include figure.html image="images/pro-dev.jpg" caption="Career Kick-Starter workshop by ACS Fellow Dr. Ajay Mallia" %}

{% endcapture %}

{% include cols.html col1=col1 %}
